TCP redirection guide (#360)
CleverCloud/documentation: content/doc/administrate/tcp-redirections.md

type: docs
---
{{< callout type="warning" >}}
TCP redirections are currently available free of charge as long as the feature is in BETA stage.
Once the feature leaves the BETA stage, it won't be free anymore.
{{< /callout >}}

## What is a TCP redirection?

Most of Clever Cloud's applications must listen on port 8080 and answer to HTTP traffic.
This serves requests routing as well as monitoring purposes.

However, some applications might require binary protocol, with raw TCP interactions.
In that case, you can use a TCP redirection to route TCP traffic from reverse proxies to your application.

The IN port on reverse proxies (public side) is the usual 4040.
The TCP redirection assigns a random OUT port specifically to your application (starting from port 5000)
Configure the application to listen to this provided port.

Once done, your application can now send and receive TCP traffic.

> Our reverse proxies then make your application available using HTTP(s) using your domain name.

Reviewer: yes, delete that sentence

Some applications might additionally want to use a binary protocol, with raw TCP interactions.
For this scenario, your application will have to listen for TCP traffic on port 4040.

> Once this is done, all you need to do is add a TCP redirection to your application. A port will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once this is done, all you need to do is add a TCP redirection to your application.
```

> Once this is done, all you need to do is add a TCP redirection to your application. A port will be

Reviewer: remove those lines

## What is a namespace?

A namespace is a group of reverse proxies: either the default public ones, cleverapps.io, or dedicated ones
A TCP redirection is associated with one of those 3 groups.

- If you are  a regular customer and want to use a custom domain name, you have to use the
"default" namespace.
- If you are a premium customer with dedicated reverse proxies, you have your own namespace.
- If you want to use a cleverapps.io domain, you can use the "cleverapps" namespace.

> If you aren't sure what are the possible namespaces for your application, you can use `clever tcp-redirs list-namespaces`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you aren't sure of possible namespaces for your application, you can use `clever tcp-redirs list-namespaces`.
```

> This command lists all the possible namespaces current application.

Reviewer: this sentence lacks a preposition between "possible namespaces" and "current application"

type: docs
---
{{< callout type="warning" >}}

> TCP redirections are currently available free of charge as long as the feature in BETA stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TCP redirections are currently available free of charge as long as the feature is in BETA stage.
```

Add verb

Once the feature leaves the BETA stage, it won't be free anymore.
{{< /callout >}}

## What is a TCP redirection?

Most of Clever Cloud's applications must listen on port 8080 and answer to HTTP traffic.
This serves requests routing as well as monitoring purposes.

However, some applications might require binary protocol, with raw TCP interactions.
In that case, you can use a TCP redirection to route TCP traffic from reverse proxies to your application.

The IN port on reverse proxies (public side) is the usual 4040.
The TCP redirection assigns a random OUT port specifically to your application (starting from port 5000)

> The application must be configured to be listening to this provided port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the application to listen to this provided port.
```

Once done, your application can now send and receive TCP traffic.

> <!-- A regular application on Clever Cloud needs to listen on port 8080 and answer to HTTP traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

remove comment (create issues in repo if needed)

Our reverse proxies then make your application available using HTTP(s) using your domain name.

Some applications might additionally want to use a binary protocol, with raw TCP interactions.
For this scenario, your application will have to listen for TCP traffic on port 4040.
Once this is done, all you need to do is add a TCP redirection to your application. A port will be

> provided to you, and your TCP listener will be available on your domain name using the provided port. -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Idem

## What is a namespace?

A namespace is a group of reverse proxies: either the default public ones, cleverapps.io, or dedicated ones

> A TCP redirection is associated with one of those 3 groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A TCP redirection relates to one of those 3 groups.
```

Active voice, might be better like this? Not sure tbh

- If you are  a regular customer and want to use a custom domain name, you have to use the
"default" namespace.
- If you are a premium customer with dedicated reverse proxies, you have your own namespace.
- If you want to use a cleverapps.io domain, you can use the "cleverapps" namespace.

If you aren't sure what are the possible namespaces for your application, you can use `clever tcp-redirs list-namespaces`.
This command lists all the possible namespaces current application.

## Creating a new TCP redirection

### With the console

> From your console, select your application. In the secondary menu, go to `TCP redirections`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From your console, select your application. In the secondary menu, go to **TCP redirections**.
```

Better to highlight than to render it as code, as it's not code, me thinks

> From there, you can create a `default` or `cleverapps` TCP redirection (see above for namespaces)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From there, you can create a `default` or `cleverapps` TCP redirection ( see [namespaces doc](#what-is-a-namespace?))
```

hope this works lol

> The creation is instantaneous. The assigned port to the application can be seen on this page. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The creation is instantaneous. Find the application assigned port on this page. 
```

![Redirection console](/images/doc/TCP_redirection_console.png)

### With the Clever CLI

You can use the `clever tcp-redirs add --namespace default` command to create a TCP redirection from the CLI.
Depending on your situation, you should replace `default` with the appropriate namespace.

> The port assigned to your application is displayed right after the TCP redirection creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The port assigned to your application displays right after the TCP redirection creation.
```

You can then contact your application's TCP listener using `tcp://your-domain-name:the-port/`.

> <!--Creating a new TCP redirection is as simple as `clever tcp-redirs add --namespace default` where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

no comments

you can obviously replace "default" by the namespace of your choice. You will be prompted with
the port that has been assigned to you and you will be able to contact your application's TCP

> listener using `tcp://your-domain-name:the-port/` -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
idem

## Managing redirections

### Listing active redirections

To visualize your application's redirections:

- from your console, an active redirection has a green tick next to it
- from the Clever CLI, you can use:

```bash
clever tcp-redirs
```

### Deleting redirections

To delete a redirection on an application:

- from your console, use the `delete` button next to the redirection
- from the Clever CLI, use:

```bash

> `clever tcp-redirs remove (port) --namespace (namespace)`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
clever tcp-redirs remove (port) --namespace (namespace)
```

```

Example: if your redirection is on port **5500** and the **default** namespace, the command would be
`clever tcp-redirs remove 5500 --namespace default`

> <!--

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

idem

type: docs
---
{{< callout type="warning" >}}
TCP redirections are currently available free of charge as long as the feature is in BETA stage.
Once the feature leaves the BETA stage, it won't be free anymore.
{{< /callout >}}

## What is a TCP redirection?

Every application hosted Clever Cloud must listen on port 8080 and answer to HTTP traffic.
This is useful for both routing requests and monitoring purposes.

> However, some applications might additionnally require binary protocol, with raw TCP interactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, some applications might additionally require binary protocol, with raw TCP interactions.
```

Fix typo

> In that case, you can use a TCP redirection to route TCP traffic, through our reverse proxies, to your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In that case, you can use a TCP redirection to route TCP traffic, through Clever Cloud reverse proxies, to your application.
```

Replace "our" by "Clever Cloud"

Every application can be configured to receive TCP traffic on the port 4040.

> We then assign a specific port to your application to expose it to TCP traffic. This port is chosen at random above 5000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clever Cloud then assign a specific port to your application to expose it to TCP traffic. This port is chosen at random above 5000.
```

Replace "we" by "Clever Cloud

Author: It would become "Clever cloud then assigns".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clever Cloud then assigns a specific port to your application to expose it to TCP traffic. This port is chosen at random above 5000.
```

> We'll use namespace "default" and port "42" for this example.

Reviewer 2: It looks like there's some missing content here.

Author: You mean a bash window ? Or did i miss something

We'll use namespace "default" and port "42" for this example.

> You can now remove your TCP redirection using `clever tcp-redirs remove 42 --namespace default`. -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

idem
